feat: F5 dos for nginx 4.9 (#1863)
nginx/documentation: content/nap-dos/deployment-guide/kubernetes.md

---
# We use sentence case and present imperative tone
title: "Kubernetes"
# Weights are assigned in increments of 100: determines sorting order
weight: 100
# Creates a table of contents and sidebar, useful for large documents
toc: true
# Types have a 1:1 relationship with Hugo archetypes, so you shouldn't need to change this
nd-content-type: how-to
nd-product: F5DOSN

> ---

Reviewer: Please follow the template [here](https://github.com/nginx/documentation/blob/main/templates/how-to/template-how-to.md). Add the missing values for keywords, summary, and audience.

Author: fixed: Metadata fields (description, keywords, nd-summary) were added in PR #1905 which has been merged

This page describes how to install F5 DOS for NGINX using Kubernetes.

It explains the common steps necessary for any Kubernetes-based deployment, then provides details specific to Helm or Manifests.

## Before you begin

To complete this guide, you will need the following pre-requisites:

- A functional Kubernetes cluster
- An active F5 DOS for NGINX subscription (Purchased or trial)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/)

To review supported operating systems, read the [Releases]({{< ref "/nap-dos/releases" >}}) topic.

## Download your subscription credentials 

{{< include "licensing-and-reporting/download-jwt-crt-from-myf5.md" >}}

## Create a Dockerfile

> In the same folder as your credential files, create a _Dockerfile_ based on your desired operating system image using an example from the following sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a _Dockerfile_ based on your desired operating system image in the same folder as your credential files using an example from the following sections.
```

Author: Fixed: This wording was already updated in PR #1905 which has been merged into this branch.

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### RHEL 10

{{< tabs name="rhel10-instructions" >}}

{{% tab name="NGINX Plus" %}}

{{< include "/dos/dockerfiles/rhel10-plus-dos.md" >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Rocky Linux 9

{{< tabs name="rocky-instructions" >}}

{{% tab name="NGINX Plus" %}}

{{< include "/dos/dockerfiles/rocky9-plus-dos.md" >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Ubuntu

{{< tabs name="ubuntu-instructions" >}}

{{% tab name="NGINX Plus" %}}

{{< include "/dos/dockerfiles/ubuntu-plus-dos.md" >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Create DOS entrypoint.sh
Docker startup script which spins up all App Protect DoS processes, must have executable permissions

{{< include "/dos/dos-entrypoint.md" >}}

## Build the Docker image

Your folder should contain the following files:

- _nginx-repo.crt_
- _nginx-repo.key_
- _entrypoint.sh_
- _nginx.conf_
- _Dockerfile_

To build an image, use the following command, replacing `<your-nginx-dos-image-name>` as appropriate:

```shell
sudo docker build --no-cache --platform linux/amd64 \
  --secret id=nginx-crt,src=nginx-repo.crt \
  --secret id=nginx-key,src=nginx-repo.key \
  -t <your-nginx-dos-image-name> .
```

> Once you have built the image, push it to your private image repository, which should be accessible to your Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have built the image, push it to your private image repository, which must be accessible to your Kubernetes cluster.
```

Author: Fixed: This wording was already applied in PR #1905 which has been merged into this branch.

From this point, the steps change based on your installation method:

- [Use Helm to install F5 DOS for NGINX](#use-helm-to-install-f5-dos-for-nginx)
- [Use Manifests to install F5 DOS for NGINX](#use-manifests-to-install-f5-dos-for-nginx)

## Use Helm to install F5 DOS for NGINX

> You will need to edit the `values.yaml` file for a few changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Helm to install F5 DOS for NGINX you need to edit the `values.yaml` and apply the following changes:
```

Author: Fixed: The entire Helm section has been removed in commit e396c804 as Helm support has been dropped.

- Update _appprotectdos.image.repository_ and _appprotectdos.image.tag_  with the image name chosen during when [building the Docker image](#build-the-docker-image).

> The `<JWT Token>` argument should be the _contents_ of the file, not the file itself. Ensure there are no additional characters such as extra whitespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<JWT Token>` argument must be the _contents_ of the file, not the file itself. Ensure there are no additional characters such as extra whitespace.
```
`should` is vague. Avoid.

Author: Fixed: The entire Helm section has been removed in commit e396c804 as Helm support has been  dropped.

> On helm deployment environment variables need to be set for image repository and tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Helm, set the deployment environment variables for image repository and tag.
```

Author: Fixed: The entire Helm section has been removed in commit e396c804 as Helm support has been dropped.

`set enviorment variable DOS_IMAGE_REPOSITORY` with your actual nginx-dos image anmae.

> `set enviorment variable DOS_IMAGE_TAG` with your actual nginx-dos image tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`set environment variable DOS_IMAGE_REPOSITORY` with your actual nginx-dos image anmae.
`set environment variable DOS_IMAGE_TAG` with your actual nginx-dos image tag.
```

Reviewer: this step is unclear to me. I think it needs to be explained with more detail.

Check the how-to template for guidance on how we use placeholders in the docs.

Author: Fixed: The entire Helm section has been removed in commit e396c804 as Helm support has been dropped.

kubectl create namespace <namespace> --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -
kubectl create secret generic license-token \ 
        --from-file=license.jwt=${PWD}/license.jwt --type=nginx.com/license --namespace <namespace>

# Install DOS Arbitrator
helm repo add nginx-stable https://helm.nginx.com/stable && helm repo update
helm install dos-arbitrator nginx-stable/nginx-appprotect-dos-arbitrator --namespace <namespace>

# Install DOS for NGINX
# release-version example: 4.8.3
helm pull oci://private-registry.nginx.com/nap-dos/nginx-app-protect --version <release-version> --untar
cd nginx-app-protect-dos

helm install nginx-app-protect-dos --namespace <namespace> \
      --set namespace.create=false --set service.type=NodePort \
      --set appProtectDos.image.repository=${DOS_IMAGE_REPOSITORY} \
      --set appProtectDos.image.tag=${DOS_IMAGE_TAG} .
       
kubectl wait --for=condition=available --timeout=300s deployment/app-protect-dos -n <namespace>
```
You can verify the deployment is successful with `kubectl get`, replacing `namespace` accordingly:

```shell
kubectl get pods -n <namespace>
kubectl get svc -n <namespace>
```

{{< call-out "note" >}}

> At this stage, you have finished deploying F5 DOS for NGINX and can look at [Post-installation checks](#post-installation-checks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deployment of F5 DOS for NGINX is now complete. You can skip to the [Post-installation checks](#post-installation-checks) now.
```

Author: Fixed: The entire Helm section has been removed in commit e396c804 as Helm support has been  dropped.

{{< /call-out >}}

## Use Manifests to install F5 DOS for NGINX

The `<JWT Token>` argument should be the _contents_ of the file, not the file itself. Ensure there are no additional characters such as extra whitespace.

### Create Manifest files

The default configuration provided creates two replicas, each hosting NGINX and DOS services together in a single Kubernetes pod.

Create all of these files in a single folder (Such as `/manifests`).

On manifest deployment environment variables need to be set for image repository and tag.
`set enviorment variable DOS_IMAGE_REPOSITORY` with your actual nginx-dos image anmae.

> `set enviorment variable DOS_IMAGE_TAG` with your actual nginx-dos image tag.

Reviewer: see my comment and fixes in the previous section

Author: Fixed in commit e396c804: Fixed typos in the manifest section ("enviorment" → "environment",    "anmae" → "name") and improved sentence structure.

kubectl apply -f dos-manifest/dos-log-default-configmap.yaml
kubectl apply -f dos-manifest/dos-nginx-conf-configmap.yaml
kubectl apply -f manifests/dos-deployment.yaml
kubectl apply -f manifests/dos-service.yaml
```

It will apply all the configuration defined in the files to your Kubernetes cluster.

You can then check the status of the deployment with `kubectl get`:

```shell
kubectl --namespace app-protect-dos get deployments
kubectl --namespace app-protect-dos get pods
kubectl --namespace app-protect-dos get services
```

You should see output similar to the following:

```text
~$ kubectl --namespace app-protect-dos get deployments
NAME              READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
app-protect-dos   1/1     1            1           1m

~$ kubectl --namespace app-protect-dos get pods
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
app-protect-dos-586fb94947-8sjnc   1/1     Running   0          1m

~$ kubectl --namespace app-protect-dos get services
NAME                TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)        AGE
nap-dos             LoadBalancer   10.43.83.225    <pending>     80:30307/TCP   1m
```

> ## Post-Installation Checks

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Post-installation checks
```

Sentence case capitalization

Author: Fixed in commit e396c804: Added blank line before the heading. Heading already uses sentence case.

At this stage, you have finished deploying F5 DOS for NGINX.
You csn login to app-protect-dos pod like following command
```text
kubectl exec -it app-protect-dos-586fb94947-8sjnc -n app-protect-dos -c nginx-app-protect-dos -- bash
```
and can look at .
{{< include "dos/install-post-checks.md" >}}

> ## F5 DoS for NGINX Arbitrator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## F5 DoS for NGINX arbitrator
```
Sentence case

Author: Fixed: Heading already uses sentence case as suggested.
